# SQL DAtabase
 

## Fill in the chart below with five differences between SQL and NoSQL databases:

SQL	                   
MySql  
 Oracle, 
Sqlite, 
Postgres
 MS-SQL              
 
 
  NoSQL:
 MongoDB,
BigTable, 
 Redis, 
RavenDb, 
Cassandra,
 Hbase, 
Neo4j 
 CouchDb


 ## What kind of data is a good fit for an SQL database?

 SQL databases are good fit for the complex query intensive environment

## Give a real world example.


## What kind of data is a good fit a NoSQL database?
NoSQL databases are often better suited to storing and modeling structured, semi-structured, and unstructured data in one database.

## Give a real world example.

## Which type of database is best for hierarchical data storage?
 NoSQL database fits better for the hierarchical data storage as it follows the key-value pair way of storing data similar to JSON data

## Which type of database is best for scalability?
SQL databases are vertically scalable. You can manage increasing load by increasing the CPU, RAM, SSD, etc, on a single server. On the other hand, NoSQL databases are horizontally scalable. You can just add few more servers easily in your NoSQL database infrastructure to handle the large traffic.


## sql vs nosql

## What does SQL stand for?

Structured Query Language.

## What is a relational database?

is a type of database that stores and provides access to data points that are related to one another 

## What type of structure does a relational database work with?

Tables are used in relational databases to store data.

## What is a 'schema'?

is a knowledge structure that allows organisms to interpret and understand the world around them.

## What is a NoSQL database?

are non-tabular databases and store data differently than relational tables.

## How does it work?
Each NoSQL database has its own unique features. At a high level, many NoSQL databases have the following features:

Flexible schemas
Horizontal scaling
Fast queries due to the data model
Ease of use for developers

## What is inside of a Mongo database?

Every mongod instance has its own local database, which stores data used in the replication process,


## Which is more flexible - SQL or MongoDB? and why.

MongoDB is more flexible and ensures high and diverse data availability, a SQL Database operates with the ACID (Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and Durability) properties and ensures greater reliability of transactions.

## What is the disadvantage of a NoSQL database?
Compatibility issues with SQL instructions.
